# Download and install myStudio Pro

## Download

myStudio Pro does not require downloading or installation. It can be accessed in a browser simply when the PC device and the machine are in the same network segment or connected via an Ethernet cable

## Install

Since myStudio Pro is a Web application, it does not require traditional installation.

You need to confirm the following points.
1. The robotic arm system is operating normally and the Web service has been enabled.
2. Obtain the correct access IP and port.
3. Access using modern browsers such as Chrome, Edge, and Safari.
> It is recommended to use the latest version of the browser to achieve the best compatibility and performance experience

## Update

- When accessed by a browser, the latest Web front-end page will be automatically loaded.
- If the page has not been updated, you can try to clear the cache and refresh (shortcut key: Ctrl + F5).

## Uninstall

- Since the system is a Web application, there is no client uninstallation step.
- If it is no longer needed, simply stop the Web service of the robotic arm system or delete the relevant bookmarks/cache in the browser

## Access method

- Ensure that the equipment and the robotic arm are in the same local area network.
- Enter: In the browser address bar
  
  ```bash
    http://<Robotic Arm System IP>:<Port Number>
    ```
After the page is successfully loaded, you can use the system without the need to install an additional client.

[← Previous page](./6.5.1-myStudioFirstUse.md) | [Next page →](./6.5.3-interface_description.md)