myCobot_Pro_450_en/3-FunctionsAndApplications/6.developmentGuide/6.1-python/1_download.md, before:

# Environment setup

pymycobot is a Python package for serial communication with myCobot, supporting Python3.5 and later versions.

Before using pymycobot to control the robot arm, you need to build a Python environment. The following is a detailed description of Python download and installation.

## Linux System

Install the pymycobot library in the console terminal:

```python
pip install pymycobot --upgrade --user
```

## Windows System

### Download and install Python

**Applicable devices:** 

- **myCobot Pro 450**

Currently, there are two versions of Python, one is `2.x` version and the other is `3.x` version. These two versions are incompatible. As `3.x` version is becoming more and more popular, our tutorial will take the latest `3.10.7` version as an example.

####  Install Python

> **Note: **Before installing, please confirm whether your computer is 64-bit or 32-bit. Right-click `My Computer` and select `Properties`. As shown in the figure below, it is a 64-bit operating system, so select the 64-bit Python installation package.
>
> <img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/operatingsystemchecking1.jpg" style="zoom: 67%;" />
>
> <img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/operatingsystemchecking2.jpg" style="zoom: 67%;" />

* **Python official download address: https://www.python.org/downloads/**

* **Click the `Downloads` option to start downloading Python, click `Add Python 3.10 to PATH`, click `Install Now` to start installing Python**

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/pythondownload1.jpg" style="zoom: 33%;" /> <img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/pythoninstall2.jpg" style="zoom: 50%;" /> <img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/pythoninstall3.jpg" style="zoom : 50%;" /> 

* **The prompt "Setup was successful" appears, indicating that the installation is complete** <img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/pythondownload4.jpg" style="zoom: 50%;" />

#### Run Python
After successful installation, open the command prompt window (Win+R, enter cmd and press Enter), and type `python`. Two situations will occur.

**Situation 1:**

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/successfulinstallation.jpg" style="zoom: 50%;" />

The prompt in the picture indicates that Python has been successfully installed.

The prompt `>>>` indicates that we are already in the Python interactive environment. We can enter any Python code and get the execution result immediately after pressing Enter.

**Case 2:**

If the input is wrong (for example, enter pythonn), an error message will appear:

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/installerror.jpg" style="zoom: 50%;" />

> **Note:** The error message is generally caused by not configuring the environment variables. You can refer to **1.3 Configure environment variables** to modify the environment variables.

#### Configure environment variables
Since Windows will search for python.exe according to the path set by a Path environment variable, if it is not found, an error will be reported. Therefore, if you miss checking `Add Python 3.10 to PATH` during installation, you need to manually add the path where python.exe is located to Path, or reinstall Python and remember to check the `Add Python 3.10 to PATH` option.

The following are the steps to manually add the path where python.exe is located.

* Right-click My Computer –> Select Properties –> Select Advanced System Settings –> Select Environment Variables in the lower right corner:

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/environment configuration.jpg" style="zoom: 50%;" />

* Environment variables mainly include user variables and system variables. The environment variables that need to be set are in these two variables. As shown in the figure below:

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/user variable1.jpg" style="zoom: 50%;" />

* User variables are used to download programs that can be used in cmd commands. Write the absolute path of the program to the user variable and you can use it, as shown in the figure below:

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/user variable2.jpg" style="zoom: 50%;" />

* After completing the above steps, open the command prompt window (Win+R, then enter cmd, press Enter), type Python, and the prompt in the figure below indicates success:

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/user variable3.jpg" style="zoom: 50%;" />

### PyCharm installation and use

PyCharm is a powerful Python editor with cross-platform capabilities. First, let's introduce the installation steps of PyCharm in Windows system.

**Download address:** **https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/download/#section=windows**

#### Download and install

* After entering the website, we will see the following interface:

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/pycharm界面.jpg" style="zoom: 40%;" />

Download the file according to the interface introduction. Professional means professional version, and Community means community version. It is recommended to install the community version because it is free to use.

* After downloading, start installing and click `Next`:

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/pycharm下载1.jpg" style="zoom: 50%;" />

* Select the corresponding options according to your personal preferences, and then click `Next`:

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/pycharm下载2.jpg" style="zoom: 50%;" />

* The following interface appears and continue to click `Next`:

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/pycharm下载3.jpg" style="zoom: 50%;" />

* Click `Finish` to complete the installation:

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/pycharm下载4.jpg" style="zoom: 50%;" />

#### Create a project

After PyCharm is installed, enter the software and create the first program.

* Click the PyCharm icon on the desktop to enter PyCharm, as shown in the figure below, and click `New Project`:

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/createproject1.jpg" style="zoom: 33%;" />

* After clicking, find `Interpreter`, start setting the interpreter, and click `Add Interpreter`:

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/interpreter1.jpg" style="zoom: 50%;" />

* Click `New`, find the python.exe storage location, and check the `Inherit global site-package` option:

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/interpreter3.jpg" style="zoom: 33%;" />

* Set `Location`. Location is where the PyCharm project is stored. You can choose it according to your needs.

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/location1.jpg" style="zoom: 33%;" />

* Create a new PyCharm file. Right-click the document icon pointed by the arrow, click `New`, click `Python File`, and the new file is created successfully.

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/pycharmfile1.jpg" style="zoom: 33%;" />

* Name Python File:

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/pycharmfile2.jpg" style="zoom: 67%;" />

* After the file is successfully created, you will enter the following interface and you can write your own program

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/createproject2.jpg" style="zoom: 33%;" />

#### Before use

* Firmware burning. Firmware refers to the device "driver" stored inside the device. Only through firmware can the operating system implement the operation of a specific machine according to the standard device driver. Different versions of the robot arm need to burn different firmware (refer to the **MyStudio** chapter).

* pymycobot installation. Open a console terminal (shortcut Win+R, enter cmd to enter the terminal), and enter the following command:

```python
pip install pymycobot --upgrade --user
```

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/pymycobot安装.jpg" style="zoom: 67%;" />

The following words appear, indicating that the pymycobot package has been successfully installed

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/pymycobot安装完成.png" style="zoom: 67%;" />

* Source code installation. Open a console terminal (shortcut Win+R, enter cmd to enter the terminal), enter the following command to install:

```python
git clone -b develop https://github.com/elephantrobotics/pymycobot.git <your-path>
#Where <your-path> fills in your installation address, if not filled in, the current path is used by default

cd <your-path>/pymycobot
#Enter the pymycobot folder of the download package

#Run one of the following commands according to your python version
# Install
python2 setup.py install
# or
python3 setup.py install
```

## Simple use of Python

After the above preparations are completed, start to control the robot arm through Python code. Here, the MyCobot Pro 450 version is used as an example for demonstration.

First, open the PyCharm you installed, create a new Python file, enter the following code, and import our library:

```python
from pymycobot import Pro450Client
```

**Note:**

1. If you enter `from pymycobot import Pro450Client`, there is no red wavy line under the font, which proves that it has been successfully installed and can be used. If a red wavy line appears, you can refer to [**How ​​to install the API library** ](https://www.cnblogs.com/xiaoguan-bky/p/11184740.html), [**How ​​to call the API library**](https://jingyan.baidu.com/article/25648fc1e86917d191fd009d.html).

2. If you do not want to install the API library through the above command, you can download the project to your local computer through the following github.

First, go to the project address: **https://github.com/elephantrobotics/pymycobot**. Then click the Code button on the right side of the webpage, and then click Download ZIP to download it locally. Put the pymycobot folder in the compressed package pymycobot file project into your python dependency library directory, and you can directly import and use it.

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/pymycobotdownload.jpg" style="zoom: 33%;" />

## Preparing for Use

Before using the Python API, please ensure that the following hardware and environment are complete:

- **Hardware**
  - MyCobot Pro 450 robot arm
  - Network cable (for connecting the robot arm to the computer)
  - Power adapter
  - Emergency stop switch (for safe operation)

- **Software and Environment**
  - Python 3.6 or later installed
  - The `pymycobot` library installed (using the `pip install pymycobot` terminal command)
  - Ensure that the MyCobot Pro 450 is properly powered on and in standby mode
  - Ensure that the MyCobot Pro 450 server is started

- **Network Configuration**
  - MyCobot Pro 450 default IP address: `192.168.0.232`
  - Default port number: `4500`
  - **Note**: The PC network card IP address must be set to **Same network segment** (e.g., `192.168.0.xxx`, where `xxx` is any number between 2 and 254 and cannot conflict with the robot arm's IP address).
  - Example:
    - Robot arm IP: `192.168.0.232`
    - PC IP: `192.168.0.100`
    - Subnet mask: `255.255.255.0`

---

## Simple Demonstration

```python
import time
from pymycobot import Pro450Client

# The default IP address is "192.168.0.232" and the default port number is 4500
pro450 = Pro450Client('192.168.0.232', 4500) # Client connection communication

if pro450.is_power_on() !=1:
    pro450.power_on()  # Power on

print(pro450.get_angles()) # Read all joint angles

pro450.send_angle(1, 90, 50) # Control J1 joint movement to 90 degrees at a speed of 50

```

---

[← Previous Chapter](./README.md) | [Next Chapter→](./2_API.md)

Commit message:

perf(pro450-python): Optimize and improve the instructions for using Python

myCobot_Pro_450_en/3-FunctionsAndApplications/6.developmentGuide/6.1-python/1_download.md, after:

# Environment setup

pymycobot is a Python package for serial communication with myCobot, supporting Python3.5 and later versions.

Before using pymycobot to control the robot arm, you need to build a Python environment. The following is a detailed description of Python download and installation.

## Linux System

Install the pymycobot library in the console terminal:

```python
pip install pymycobot --upgrade --user
```

## Windows System

### Download and install Python

**Applicable devices:** 

- **myCobot Pro 450**

Currently, there are two versions of Python, one is `2.x` version and the other is `3.x` version. These two versions are incompatible. As `3.x` version is becoming more and more popular, our tutorial will take the latest `3.10.7` version as an example.

####  Install Python

> **Note: **Before installing, please confirm whether your computer is 64-bit or 32-bit. Right-click `My Computer` and select `Properties`. As shown in the figure below, it is a 64-bit operating system, so select the 64-bit Python installation package.
>
> <img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/operatingsystemchecking1.jpg" style="zoom: 67%;" />
>
> <img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/operatingsystemchecking2.jpg" style="zoom: 67%;" />

* **Python official download address: https://www.python.org/downloads/**

* **Click the `Downloads` option to start downloading Python, click `Add Python 3.10 to PATH`, click `Install Now` to start installing Python**

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/pythondownload1.jpg" style="zoom: 33%;" /> <img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/pythoninstall2.jpg" style="zoom: 50%;" /> <img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/pythoninstall3.jpg" style="zoom : 50%;" /> 

* **The prompt "Setup was successful" appears, indicating that the installation is complete** <img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/pythondownload4.jpg" style="zoom: 50%;" />

#### Run Python
After successful installation, open the command prompt window (Win+R, enter cmd and press Enter), and type `python`. Two situations will occur.

**Situation 1:**

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/successfulinstallation.jpg" style="zoom: 50%;" />

The prompt in the picture indicates that Python has been successfully installed.

The prompt `>>>` indicates that we are already in the Python interactive environment. We can enter any Python code and get the execution result immediately after pressing Enter.

**Case 2:**

If the input is wrong (for example, enter pythonn), an error message will appear:

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/installerror.jpg" style="zoom: 50%;" />

> **Note:** The error message is generally caused by not configuring the environment variables. You can refer to **1.3 Configure environment variables** to modify the environment variables.

#### Configure environment variables
Since Windows will search for python.exe according to the path set by a Path environment variable, if it is not found, an error will be reported. Therefore, if you miss checking `Add Python 3.10 to PATH` during installation, you need to manually add the path where python.exe is located to Path, or reinstall Python and remember to check the `Add Python 3.10 to PATH` option.

The following are the steps to manually add the path where python.exe is located.

* Right-click My Computer –> Select Properties –> Select Advanced System Settings –> Select Environment Variables in the lower right corner:

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/environment configuration.jpg" style="zoom: 50%;" />

* Environment variables mainly include user variables and system variables. The environment variables that need to be set are in these two variables. As shown in the figure below:

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/user variable1.jpg" style="zoom: 50%;" />

* User variables are used to download programs that can be used in cmd commands. Write the absolute path of the program to the user variable and you can use it, as shown in the figure below:

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/user variable2.jpg" style="zoom: 50%;" />

* After completing the above steps, open the command prompt window (Win+R, then enter cmd, press Enter), type Python, and the prompt in the figure below indicates success:

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/user variable3.jpg" style="zoom: 50%;" />

### PyCharm installation and use

PyCharm is a powerful Python editor with cross-platform capabilities. First, let's introduce the installation steps of PyCharm in Windows system.

**Download address:** **https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/download/#section=windows**

#### Download and install

* After entering the website, we will see the following interface:

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/pycharm界面.jpg" style="zoom: 40%;" />

Download the file according to the interface introduction. Professional means professional version, and Community means community version. It is recommended to install the community version because it is free to use.

* After downloading, start installing and click `Next`:

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/pycharm下载1.jpg" style="zoom: 50%;" />

* Select the corresponding options according to your personal preferences, and then click `Next`:

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/pycharm下载2.jpg" style="zoom: 50%;" />

* The following interface appears and continue to click `Next`:

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/pycharm下载3.jpg" style="zoom: 50%;" />

* Click `Finish` to complete the installation:

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/pycharm下载4.jpg" style="zoom: 50%;" />

#### Create a project

After PyCharm is installed, enter the software and create the first program.

* Click the PyCharm icon on the desktop to enter PyCharm, as shown in the figure below, and click `New Project`:

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/createproject1.jpg" style="zoom: 33%;" />

* After clicking, find `Interpreter`, start setting the interpreter, and click `Add Interpreter`:

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/interpreter1.jpg" style="zoom: 50%;" />

* Click `New`, find the python.exe storage location, and check the `Inherit global site-package` option:

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/interpreter3.jpg" style="zoom: 33%;" />

* Set `Location`. Location is where the PyCharm project is stored. You can choose it according to your needs.

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/location1.jpg" style="zoom: 33%;" />

* Create a new PyCharm file. Right-click the document icon pointed by the arrow, click `New`, click `Python File`, and the new file is created successfully.

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/pycharmfile1.jpg" style="zoom: 33%;" />

* Name Python File:

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/pycharmfile2.jpg" style="zoom: 67%;" />

* After the file is successfully created, you will enter the following interface and you can write your own program

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/createproject2.jpg" style="zoom: 33%;" />

#### Before use

* Firmware burning. Firmware refers to the device "driver" stored inside the device. Only through firmware can the operating system implement the operation of a specific machine according to the standard device driver. Different versions of the robot arm need to burn different firmware (refer to the **MyStudio** chapter).

* pymycobot installation. Open a console terminal (shortcut Win+R, enter cmd to enter the terminal), and enter the following command:

```python
pip install pymycobot --upgrade --user
```

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/pymycobot安装.jpg" style="zoom: 67%;" />

The following words appear, indicating that the pymycobot package has been successfully installed

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/pymycobot安装完成.png" style="zoom: 67%;" />

* Source code installation. Open a console terminal (shortcut Win+R, enter cmd to enter the terminal), enter the following command to install:

```python
git clone -b develop https://github.com/elephantrobotics/pymycobot.git <your-path>
#Where <your-path> fills in your installation address, if not filled in, the current path is used by default

cd <your-path>/pymycobot
#Enter the pymycobot folder of the download package

#Run one of the following commands according to your python version
# Install
python2 setup.py install
# or
python3 setup.py install
```

## Simple use of Python

After the above preparations are completed, start to control the robot arm through Python code. Here, the MyCobot Pro 450 version is used as an example for demonstration.

First, open the PyCharm you installed, create a new Python file, enter the following code, and import our library:

```python
from pymycobot import Pro450Client
```

**Note:**

1. If you enter `from pymycobot import Pro450Client`, there is no red wavy line under the font, which proves that it has been successfully installed and can be used. If a red wavy line appears, you can refer to [**How ​​to install the API library** ](https://www.cnblogs.com/xiaoguan-bky/p/11184740.html), [**How ​​to call the API library**](https://jingyan.baidu.com/article/25648fc1e86917d191fd009d.html).

2. If you do not want to install the API library through the above command, you can download the project to your local computer through the following github.

First, go to the project address: **https://github.com/elephantrobotics/pymycobot**. Then click the Code button on the right side of the webpage, and then click Download ZIP to download it locally. Put the pymycobot folder in the compressed package pymycobot file project into your python dependency library directory, and you can directly import and use it.

<img src="../../../resources\3-FunctionsAndApplications\6.developmentGuide\python\build/pymycobotdownload.jpg" style="zoom: 33%;" />

## Pre-use Preparation

Before using the sample functions, please ensure that the following hardware and environment are complete:

- **Hardware**
  - MyCobot Pro 450 robot arm
  - Network cable (for connecting the robot arm to the computer)
  - Power adapter
  - Emergency stop switch (for safe operation)

- **Software and Environment**
  - Python 3.6 or later installed
  - The `pymycobot` library installed (using the `pip install pymycobot` terminal command)
  - Ensure that the MyCobot Pro 450 is properly powered on and in standby mode.
  - **Note**: The Pro 450 server automatically starts upon powering on; no manual operation is required.

- **Network Configuration**
  - MyCobot Pro 450 default IP address: `192.168.0.232`
  - Default port number: `4500`
  - **Note**: PC The local network card IP address must be set to the same network segment as the robot (e.g., 192.168.0.xxx, where xxx is a number between 2 and 254 and must not conflict with the robot).
  - Example:
    - Robot IP: 192.168.0.232
    - PC IP: 192.168.0.100
    - Subnet mask: 255.255.255.0

  - **Verification**: After completing the network configuration, execute the following command on the PC terminal. If data packets are successfully returned, the network connection is normal:

    ```bash
    ping 192.168.0.232
    ```

---

## Simple Demonstration

```python
import time
from pymycobot import Pro450Client

# The default IP address is "192.168.0.232" and the default port number is 4500
pro450 = Pro450Client('192.168.0.232', 4500) # Client connection communication

if pro450.is_power_on() !=1:
    pro450.power_on()  # Power on

print(pro450.get_angles()) # Read all joint angles

pro450.send_angle(1, 90, 50) # Control J1 joint movement to 90 degrees at a speed of 50

```

---

[← Previous Chapter](./README.md) | [Next Chapter→](./2_API.md)
